
The following Specification is found on page 1 of the document. 

Section 01 33 00     Submittal Procedures 
1.03 SUBMITTALS FOR INFORMATION  
  A. When the following are specified in individual sections, submit them for  information to 
  ARC Architectural Group.  The information shall be kept securely for transfer to RUSD  at 
  the appropriate time, or at the completion of the Project.   
  1.    Design data.          
  2.    Certificates.         
  3.    Test reports.         
  4.    Ready mix concrete batch tickets       
  5.    Inspection repor ts.        
  6.    Manufacturer's instructions.        
  7.    Manufacturer's field reports.       
  8.    Other types included.  
The following Specification is found on page 2 of the document. 
Check Dwgs1.05 SUBMITTAL PROCEDURE  
 A. It is expected that the General Contractor shall thoroughly review each   
  submittal from the Sub- Contractors and t he Material Suppliers for compliance with 
  the Specifications and format requirement s prior to forwarding to the Architect  
  for review. 
 
 B. Transmit each submittal with a transmittal letter.  
 
 C. Sequentially number the transmittal form.  Revise submittals with original number  
  and a sequential alphabetic suffix.  
 
 D. Identify:  Proj ect, Subcontractor or supplier, pertinent drawing and detail number, 
  and specification section number, as appropriate on each copy.  
 
A. Apply stamp, signed or initialed, certifying that review, approval, verification of  
products required, field dimensions, adjacent construction Work, and   
coordination of information is in accordance with the requirements of the Work  
and Contract Documents.  
 
B. Electronic Submittals are acceptable.  If the Architect deems additional infor mation or 
representations are required, the General Contract shall comply and provide 
additional supplementary printed submittals.  
 
 G. NOTE:   The above stated Submittal Procedures shall be the standard for the Project  
  Architect’s review of submittals by  the contractors.  
  H. Schedule submittals to expedite the Project, and coordinate submission of  
  related items.   If an immediate review and response is needed to maintain  
  project schedule, so state in  the transmittal letter.  
  I. For each submittal  for review, allow 10 days excluding delivery time to and from.  
  J. Identify variations from Contract Documents and Product or system limitations,  
  which  may be detrimental to successful performance of the completed Work.  
  K. Provide space for review stamp by the Project Architect or the Consulting Engineers.  
  L. If required, when revised for resubmission, identify all changes made since   
  previous submission.  
 
The following Specification is found on page 5 of the document. 
Section 01 77 00     Project Closeout Procedures  
 
 

1.03 SUBMITTALS 
 
A. Project Record Documents:  Submit documents to ARC Architectural Group 
with claim for final Applica tion for Payment. 
 
B. Operations and Maintenance  Data: 
 
1. Submit two copies of preliminary draft or proposed formats and outlines of 
contents before start of Work, to ARC Archit ectural Group.  The Architect shall 
review draft and return one copy with comme nts. 
2. Submit one copy of completed documents 15 days prior to final inspection. 
This copy will be reviewed and returned after final inspection with the 
Architect's comme nts. 
3. Submit two sets of revised final documents in final form within 10 days after 
final inspection. 
 
C. Warrant ies and Bonds: 
 
1. For equipme nt or component parts of equipme nt put into servic e during 
construction with the Owner’s permission, submit documents within ten 
days after acceptance.  
2. Make other submittals within ten days after Date of substantial Completion, 
prior to final Applica tion for Payment. 
3. Work items for which acceptance  is delayed beyond Date of Substantial 
Completion, submit within ten days after acce ptance listing the date of 
acce ptance as the beginning of the warranty period. 
 
 
 

The following Specification is found on page 7 of the document. 
Check Dwgs
1.07 APPROVALS AND SUBMITTALS  
 
 A. Obtain Architect's approval before cutting, drilling, sawing or coring through concrete,  
  masonry or steel or otherwise disturbing any work affecting structural safety to new or  
  existing construction.  
  B. Report any discrepancies to Architect in writing before proceeding with affected work.  
 
 C. Obtain all necessary permits and approvals before use of torches.  
 
 D. Obtain consent of other Co ntractors and Subcontractors before disturbing or interfering 
  with their work.  
  

The following Specification is found on page 9 of the document. 
Section 08 36 16     VERHEAD SECTIONAL DOORS  

1.4  SUBMITTALS 
A. Submit under provisions of Section 01 33 00.  
B. Product Data: Manufacturer's data sheets on each product to be used, including:  
1. Preparation instructions and recommendations.  
2. Storage and handling requirements and recommendations.  
3. Installation methods.  
C. Shop Drawings:  
1. Provide drawings indicating track details, head and jamb conditions, spring shafts, 
anchorage, accessories, finish colors, patterns and textures, operator mounts and other 
related information.  
2. Regulatory Requirements and Approvals: Provide shop drawings in compliance with local Authority having Jurisdiction (AHJ).  
D. Certifications:  
1. Submit manufacturer's certificate that products meet or exceed specified requirements.  
2. Submit installer qualifications.  
E. Selection Samples: For each finish product specified, two complete sets of color chips representing manufacturer's full range of avai lable colors and patterns.  
F. Verification Samples: For each finish product specified, two samples, minimum size 6 inches 
(150 mm) square, representing actual product, color, and patterns.  

The following Specification is found on page 10 of the document. 
Section 08 71 00     DOOR HARDWARE  
 

1.03 SUBMITTALS for review and approval by the Architect, prior to placi ng an order for the wood 
doors, submit: 
 
A. Manufacturer's product data sheets and catalog cut sheets. 
 
B. Shop Drawings, indicate hardware item, location, mounting height on the door, and 
written job-specific manufacturers’ warranties. 
 
C. See Section 01 33 00 - Submittal Procedures. 
 
D. Warrant y: Submit manufacturer's warrant y and ensure that all necessary forms have 
been completed and registered  with manufacturer. 

The following Specification is found on page 11 of the document. 
Section     09 91 13     EXTERIOR  PAINTING 
 

1.12 SUBMITTALS 
  
 A. See Section 01 31 00 -  Administrative Requirements, for submittal procedures.  
  B. Product Data: Provide data on all finishing products.  
  C. Samples: Submit two paper chip samples, in size illustrating range of colors and  
  textures available for each surface finishing product scheduled.  
 
 D. Manufacturer's Instructions: Indicate special surfa ce preparation procedures.  

The following Specification is found on page 12 of the document. 
Check Dwgs1.04 SUBMITTALS 
  
 A. See Section 01 31 00 -  Administrative Requirements, for submittal procedures.  
 
 B. Product Data: Provide data on all finishing products.  
  C. Samples: Submit two paper chip samples, in size illustrating range of colors and  
  textures available for each s urface finishing product scheduled.  
 
 D. Manufacturer's Instructions: Indicate special surface preparation procedures.  
  E. Maintenance Data: Submit data on cleaning, touch up, and repair of painted and 
  coated surfaces.  

The following Specification is found on page 13 of the document. 
Check Dwgs
1.6 SUBMITTALS  
A. Submit under provisions of Section 01 33 00.  
 
B. Product Data: Manufacturer's data sheets on each product to be used, including:  
1. Preparation instructions and recommendations.  
2. Storage and handling requirements and recommendations.  
3. Installation methods.  
 
C. Shop Drawings: Provide complete erection drawings for the proper identification and assembly of al l 
building components. Drawings will show anchor bolt settings, transverse cross -sections, sidewall, 
end wall  and roof framing, flashing and sheeting, and accessory installation details.  
 
D. Selection Samples: For each finish product specified, two complete s ets of color chips representing 
manufacturer's full range of available colors and patterns.  
 
E. Verification Samples: For each finish product specified, two samples, representing actual product, 
color, and patterns.  

The following Specification is found on page 14 of the document. 

SECTION 22 05 00          COMMON WORK RESULTS FOR PLUMBING
1.03  SUBMITTALS  
 A. Product Data:  For the following:         
  1. Mechanical sleeve seals.         
  2. Welding certificates. 
The following Specification is found on page 15 of the document. 
SECTION      22 05 23     GENERAL-DUTY VALVES FOR PLUMBING PIPING  

1.03  ACTION SUBMITTALS  
 A. Product Data:  For  each type of valve indicated. 
The following Specification is found on page 16 of the document. 
SECTION     22 11 10     FACILITY NATURAL GAS PIPING
1.04  ACTION SUBMITTALS  
 A. Product Data:  For each type of the following:        
  1. Valves.  Include pressure rating, capacity, settings, and electrical connection data of selected  
       models.           
  2. Pressure regulators.  Indi cate pressure ratings and capacities. 
The following Specification is found on page 16 of the document. 
SECTION     22 11 10     FACILITY NATURAL GAS PIPING
1.05  INFORMATIONAL SUBMITTALS  
 A. Coordination Drawings:  Plans and details, drawn to scale, on which natural -gas piping is shown and     
      coordinated with other installations, using input from installers of th e items involved.  
 B. Welding certificates.  
 C. Field quality -control reports. 
The following Specification is found on page 16 of the document. 
SECTION     22 11 10     FACILITY NATURAL GAS PIPING
1.06  CLOSEOUT SUBMITTALS  
 A. Operation and Maintenance Data:  For pressure regulators to include in emergency, operation, and      
      maintenance  manuals. 
The following Specification is found on page 17 of the document. 
SECTION     22 11 19     DOMESTIC WATER PIPING SPECIALTIES  
 
1.03  CLOSEOUT SUBMITTALS  
 A. Operation and Maintenance Data:  For domestic water piping specialties to include in emergency, operation, 
      and maintenance manuals.  

The following Specification is found on page 18 of the document. 
SECTION      22 13 19      SANITARY WASTE PIPING SPECIALTIES  

1.03  ACTION SUBMITTALS:  Product Data  for each type of product indicated.   
The following Specification is found on page 33 of the document. 
Check Dwgs1.07  SUBMITTALS  
  A. Within 14 days after award of contract, and before any of the materials of this section are delivered to the 
      job site , submit eight complete sets to the Architect in accord with the provisions of Division One - General 
      Requirements, the following:          
  1. Shop D rawing Su bmittals.         
  2. Show variations from contract documents.       
  3. The contractor s hall not be relieved of responsibility for executing work in accord with contract 
       documents, even though such drawings have been approved.   
 B. Affidavits: The contractor shall execute the standard State Electrical Affidavit of Compliance with the     
      Electrical Code and safe practices.  Notarize and file two copies with the owner before final payment is    
      made.  
  C. Record Drawings: Day by day, as installed, details shall be transferred to a set of scale tracings prepared by 
      the  electrical contractor.  The completed tracings shall be turned over to the Owner upon completion.  
  
The following Specification is found on page 38 of the document. 
Section     26 05 19 
LOW-VOLTAGE ELECTRICAL  POWER CONDUCTORS AND  CABLES 
 
1.04  SUBMITTALS   
 A. Submit under provisions of Division One -  General Requirements.  Provide upon request.   
 B. Product Data:  Provide for each cable assembly type.   
 C. Test Reports:  Indicate procedures and values obtained.   
 D. Manufacturer's Installati on Instructions:  Indicate application conditions and limitations of use stipulated by 
      product testing agency specified under Regulatory Requirements.  
  E. Contractor shall review and stamp all shop drawings prior to submitting them for review.  Arc hitect  will not 
      review any submittals that have not been stamped by the contractor.  

The following Specification is found on page 51 of the document. 
Section     26 05 33.16     BOXES FOR ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS  

1.04  SUBMITTALS   
 A. Submit under provisions of Division One -  General Requirements if requested.   
 B. Contractor shall review and stamp all shop drawings prior to submitting them for  review.  Architect will not 
      review any submittals that have not been reviewed & stamped by the contractor.  

The following Specification is found on page 54 of the document. 
Section      26 05 33.23     SURFACE RACEWAYS FOR  ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS 
 
1.04  SUBMITTALS   
 A. Submit under provisions of Division One -  General Requirements.   
 B. Product Data:  Provide dimensions, knockout sizes and locations, materials, fabrication details, finishes,  
      and accessories.  
  C. Manufacturer's Instructions:  Indicate applica tion conditions and limitations of use stipulated by Product 
      testing agency specified under Regulatory Requirements.  Include instructions for storage, handling,     
      protection, examination, preparation, and installation of Product.  
  D. Contr actor shall review and stamp all shop drawings prior to submitting them for review.  Architect  will not 
      review any submittals that have not been reviewed & stamped by the contractor.  

The following Specification is found on page 56 of the document. 

Section     26 05 53     GROUNDING AND BONDING FOR ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS 
 

1.04  SUBMITTALS   
 A. Submit under provisions of Division One -  General Requirements.   
 B. Product Data:  Provide catalog data for nameplates, labels, and markers.   
 C. Manufacturer's Instructions:  Indicate application conditions and limitations of use  stipulated by Product 
      testing agency specified under regulatory requirements.  Include instructions for storage, handling,     
      protection, examination, preparation and installation of Product.  

The following Specification is found on page 60 of the document. 
Section     26 24 16       PANELBOARDS  
  1.04  SUBMITTALS   
 A. Submit under provisions of Division One -  General Requirements.   
 B. Shop Drawings:  Indicate outline and support point dimensions, voltage, main bus  ampacity, integrated short 
      circuit ampere rating, circuit breaker and fusible switch arrangemen t and sizes.  
  C. Contractor shall review and stamp all shop drawings prior to submitting them for review.  Architect  will not 
      review any submittals that have not been stamped by the  contractor.  

The following Specification is found on page 66 of the document. 
Section     26 27 26-1     WIRING  DEVICES  

1.04  SUBMITTALS FOR REVIEW   
 A. Submit under provisions of Division One -  General Requirements.   
 B. Product Data:  Provide manufacturer's catalog information showing dimensions, colors, and configurations.   
 C. Contractor shall review and stamp all shop drawings prior to submitting them for review.  Architect  will not 
      review any submittals that have not been stamped by the contractor.  

The following Specification is found on page 66 of the document. 
Section     26 27 26-1     WIRING  DEVICES  

1.04  SUBMITTALS FOR REVIEW   
 A. Submit under provisions of Division One -  General Requirements.   
 B. Product Data:  Provide manufacturer's catalog information showing dimensions, colors, and configurations.   
 C. Contractor shall review and stamp all shop drawings prior to submitting them for review.  Architect  will not 
      review any submittals that have not been stamped by the contractor.  

The following Specification is found on page 72 of the document. 
Section     26 28 16.16        ENCLOSED  SWITCHES  

1.03  SUBMITTALS   
 A. Submit under provisions of Division One -  General Requirements.   
 B. Product Data:  Provide switch ratings and enclosure dimensio ns.   
 C. Manufacturer's Instructions:  Indicate application conditions and limitations of use stipulated by p roduct 
      testing agency specified under Regulatory Requirements.  Include instructions for storage, handling,     
      protection, examinatio n, preparation, installation, and starting of Product.   
 D. Contractor shall review and stamp all shop drawings prior to submitting them for review.  Architect  will not 
      review any submittals not stamped by the contractor.  

The following Specification is found on page 74 of the document. 
Section     26 05 26     INTERIOR  LIGHTING, FANS, & ACCESSORIES  
 1.04  SUBMITTALS  
  A. Submit under provisions of Division One -  General Requirements.  
  B. Shop Drawings:  Indicate dimensions and components for each luminaire that is not a standard product  of 
      the manufacturer.  
  C. Product Data:  Provide dimensions, ratings, and performance data.  
  D. Manufacturer's Instructions:  Indicate application conditions and limitations of use stipulated by product 
      testing agency specified under Regulatory Requirements.  
  E. Manufacturer's Instructions:  Include instructions for storage, handling, protection, E xamination,     
      preparation, and installation of product.  
  F. Contractor shall review and stamp all  shop drawings prior to submitting them for review.  Architect  will not 
      review any submittals that have not been reviewed & stamped by the contractor.  
The following Specification is found on page 82 of the document. 
Check Dwgs1.06  SUBMITTALS  
  A. Submit under provisions of Division One -  General Requirements.  
  B. Shop Drawings:  Provide riser drawing, battery calculations and equipment cut sheets.  
  C. Product Data:  Provide electrical characteristics and connection requirements.   
 D. Test R eports:  Indicate satisfactory completion of required tests and inspections.  
  E. Manufacturer's Installation Instructions:  Indicate application conditions and limitations of use stipulated by 
     product testing agency.  Include instructions for storag e, handling, protection, examination, preparation, 
     installation, and starting of products.  
